 Hi, I'm Ryo. Three months ago, I read a story about a girl on the Internet. She made a speech at an international *conference. In the speech, she said, “Young people can do a lot of things for the earth." She gives power to young people around the world. I believe her words. I am a student and I was able to do a small thing for the earth. Today, I'm going to talk about something I did with my family and I hope you will also believe her words after my speech.

 *Plastic bags are very useful. They are *light, waterproof, and cheap. (But do you know that there are many problems with plastic bags?) For example, animals and fish die because of *plastic waste. Many countries are now trying to find the answers to these things. I think we should *reduce the number of plastic bags we use. I hope everyone will try to live without plastic bags.
Now I have a question. "How often do you get plastic bags ? Please look at "Graph 1. It shows
how often people got plastic bags in Japan in 2014.

 About 30% of the people got one plastic bag or more than one plastic bag per day, and some of them got three or more plastic bags per day. But about 50 % of the people only got about one plastic bag per week or rarely got plastic bags. This means that about half of the people didn't get a lot of bags. (They did something to reduce the number of plastic bags they got.) I wanted to find something I could do, too. I didn't know the number of plastic bags I used at that time, but I wanted to know that. So, I talked with my family.


 In January this year, my family started a "four-week "project to reduce the number of plastic bags we got. In Graph 2, you can see the number of plastic bags we got each week. My mother usually used her "own shopping bag, so she only got two plastic bags during the project. My sister and I started to carry our own shopping bags when we started the project. In the first, second, and third week, I sometimes forgot to carry my shopping bag to stores and got some plastic bags, but I got no plastic bags in the last week. My father got one plastic bag every day until the end of the second week. He got plastic bags when he bought coffee or tea at stores. At the end of the second week, my sister and I gave him a 'reusable bottle. He started to use it to take coffee or tea from home, and the number of plastic bags he got became smaller the next week. In the last week, my family only got two plastic bags !

 I have used too many plastic bags in my life. I think the project was a good chance to learn that. Before I started the family project, I didn't even think about the number of plastic bags my family got every day. Now, we carry our own shopping bags, so we rarely get plastic bags. (Each of us has also started to do other things for the earth.) My mother makes shopping bags from our family's old clothes, and she enjoys it very much. My father's
*company works with a *volunteer group that 'protects a river. Now he is working hard on that project. My sister and I have started to talk with other people about the future of the earth.

 When you think about what to do for the earth, some of you may try to do a big and difficult thing. But you don't have to. Please do a small and easy thing first. Your small idea may become a big one and it may save the earth in the future. I want to say the girl's words again, “Young people can do a lot of things for the earth."

*
conference 会議
Plastic bags レジ袋
light, waterproof, and cheap 軽くて耐水性があり安い
plastic waste ブラスチックごみ
reduce~ ~を減らす
How often ~ どのくらいの頻度で~
Graph グラフ
per~ ~につき
rarely~ めったに~ない
four-week 4週間の
project 企画
own 自分の
reusable bottle 水筒
company 会社
volunteer ボランティア
protects~ ~を保護する

